# Office-Staff-Info-System

## To run the project
- Install xampp and go to phpmyadmin 
- Create database 'office' and import the sql file in that database
- Extract the pdf.zip in the application folder ( htdocs/office ) 
- Type localhost/office and start running the project

### Two main sections of the project:

-	Backend: Tech Stack used: PHP, MySQL (Database) 
-	Frontend: Tech Stack used: HTML, CSS, JavaScript.
-	Server: XAMPP – Localhost
-	Development Tools used : Visual Studio Code for development & 
 XAMPP Phymyadmin for SQL commands
-	Database: Phpmyadmin – MySQL

### 3 Main Modules 

-	Section tables, where all data regarding availability of centres and departments in office are stored.
-	Staff tables, where basic data of staff members working in all centres and departments are stored.
-	Revenue generated by staff, which gives details about staff members who have been granted R&D projects and Consultancy projects by various funding agencies and are displayed as required.


### Database Design Overview

- The login table consists of details of admin who can login and perform various operations like adding a section, viewing staff members, say, for the purpose of transferring any staff to a needy section.

- The Section table consists of details of sections available in the office. The staff table consists of basic details (required for office purpose) of the staff members in all departments or sections.

- The client table basically consists of all the funding agency details or the details of revenue providers who were collectively named clients. It is linked to the section table which links to staff table, hence we can trace which funding agency has funded to the staff, for what purpose and to which section. If required, report may be generated for the same. 

## Main features of the project

- Login access to the admin only, so that the staff members may not be able to edit the databases.

- The admin can view/add sections, view/add staff members, view/add funding agencies or revenue providers collectively called clients. 

- There is also an update option which enables the admin to update details of section or staff. A fine example would be, if particular staff’s designation is changed, he may request the admin to change it in database, and that will be updated.

- Delete option which allows the admin to delete a particular section or staff or funding agency. The foreign key constraints are kept in mind, which means, if the details of staff in the primary table is to be deleted, the linked details of staff will first be deleted from all other tables and only then the details from primary table will be deleted to not violate the foreign key constraint. 

- There is a search option implemented, which allows the admin to search for a particular staff or section based on various criteria, say if details of all ‘finance’ type of section is required, the admin may search for finance and can view details of all sections under the type finance (say, FA70 and FA90 are the sections under finance). This feature may be helpful, in case any transfer of staff needs to happen between sections, the admin may search for list of staff of particular designation and view list of sections also, hence the vacancy and availability may be traced and consequently, transfer list may be prepared at a faster pace with this feature.

- Generate the reports as pdf form feature acts as the most important feature of this project, where basic details of staff or sections or funding agency (say clients) or revenue generated by staff can all be viewed as a pdf format. The advantage of the pdf format generated report is that, it can be verified by the authority once printed and can be signed, in case the user wants an attested copy of the details. 

- In future, more attributes may be added in the details table, based on which many operations may be performed.

#### Feel Free to contribute to the project. All suggestions to improve the design or adding features are welcome
